Most Kafka users will be interested in making sure
their data is resilient to Kafka broker failures.
As you've likely experienced, machines fail,
and often, we cannot predict when it's going to happen or prevent it for that matter.
Thankfully, the Kafka design team had the foresight to include
the concept of replication as a core feature of Kafka.
In Kafka, replication means that the data is written not just to one broker but to many.
So here, we wrote A to partition A and broker 0.
But we're also going to write it to broker 1 because broker 1 has partitioned A as
a replica and to broker 2 because it also has partition A replicas.
So what does that mean?
If broker 0 were to fail,
broker 1 and 2 would still have the data.
As we mentioned previously,
the broker responsible for sending and receiving data to clients
is known as the leader broker for given topic partition.
So here, we have partition A and partition B leaders.
Any brokers that are storing the replicated data,
are referred to as replicas.
So broker 0 is a replica for partition B,
broker 2 is a replica for partition A,
and broker 1 is a replica for both partition B and partition A.
If the leader broker were to fail,
one of these replicas would be elected the new per
topic partition leader by a zookeeper election.
So if broker 0 were to fail,
we would no longer have a leader for partition A.
Broker 1 and broker two will call an election to decide who will
become the leader for partition A now that the broker zero has failed.
Once the election is complete,
a new broker will be elected.
In this case, broker 1 was elected the new leader of partition A.
The exact number of replicas that will be used can be configured globally as
a Kafka server configuration item as well as
set individually on every topic that you create.
But there are a few things you need to keep in mind.
First, you can't have more replicas than you have brokers.
If you have five brokers in your cluster,
the maximum number of replicas you can set,
either globally or on your topic, is five.
I want to reiterate that in the previous exercises we use a replication factor of one.
The reason we did that is because in the work space,
we only have one broker,
so we're limited to a maximum replication factor of one.
It's also worth mentioning that replication has overhead.
The more nodes that need to replicate the data,
the longer it's going to take to produce the data to the cluster.
That being said, it is always a good idea to enable replication if you can.
In this course, like I mentioned,
we're only going to be using one broker.
But outside of this course, I strongly,
strongly recommend using replication factor greater than one to prevent data loss.